[MINATO]
Welcome to Deca‐dence.
As you surely know,
we Gears have spent centuries
locked in brutal warfare,
to protect what little we have
from the beasts
known as the Gadoll.
But the fight is a tough one.
Resources are always scarce.
Soldiers are hard to find
and harder to keep.
You have my personal thanks
for joining up.
And on behalf of The Power.
Glad to have you aboard.
Now stand fast and
lend me your strength.
And the day will come
when the sun rises over
a world free of the Gadoll.
There's a battle?
[KABURAGI]
Jill! What's going on here?
[JILL]
More specifically?
[KABURAGI] I thought there
wasn't any fighting right now.
[JILL]
All the emergency maintenance
isn't exactly good for business.
Obviously the company's
gonna be trying to get back
to normal gameplay ASAP.
[KABURAGI]
Incursion?
[RANDOM TANKER A]
They're here!
What, again?
Hold the line and
don't let them get through!
What in the hell have they done?
Easy.
[RANDOM TANKER E]
Incoming!
[KURENAI] So you brought
the whole crew, huh?
You're still gonna die!
Oh shit!
[KURENAI]
Five of 'em broke through!
Get 'em!
They got through. Not good!
[TANKER]
Let me through!
Hey! Calm down, morons!
[RANDOM TANKER F]
It's coming!
[RANDOM TANKER G]
Run!
Come at me!
Damn garbage newb body!
The hell?
Oh no.
Yeah. Good job, me.
Wait. Natsume?
Are you okay?
Mm. Thanks, nice lady!
Always happy to help!
[TANKER B]
We can't thank you enough.
[TANKER GIRL]
Bye‐bye, miss!
[NATSUME]
Bye‐bye.
‐‐When you were‐‐
‐‐[MINDY] Natsume!
There you are. You okay?
[NATSUME]
Yes, ma'am.
We've cleared out
the tank's interior.
They need us at the hole.
And hurry!
We can't let any
more of 'em through!
Got it!
[GEAR C]
Oh yeah!
[GEAR A] Yeesh. Got a
little dicey there for a minute.
It's more fun when
the stakes are higher.
[RANDOM TANKER I]
Over here quick!
[RANDOM TANKER J]
We need a doctor.
I can't stop the bleeding!
[INJURED SOLDIER A]
It hurts!
[INJURED SOLDIER B]
Please just end it.
[RANDOM TANKER L]
That thing that shot the spines.
I can't reach him
from this account.
[MINATO]
Sitrep?
Tank and breach clear.
Tanker casualties still TBD.
[MINATO] If you can spare
me a few minutes,
I could use a smoke.
Yes, sir.
[KABURAGI] I see your favorite
vape spot hasn't changed.
[MINATO]
Who's there?
And more importantly, how did
you get access to this area?
[KABURAGI] Somebody
talked 'em outta scrapping me.
Figure it musta been you.
Thanks for that.
Huh? Kaburagi?
How did you get an account?
Fell off a truck?
[MINATO]
Yeah, I get ya.
So how's life in corrections?
What's that hole
in the tank about?
It's set dressing.
What else would it be?
Plus, it was the cheapest way
to implement a new quest line.
Not a very good trade.
The "endangered species"
feature for a single quest line.
There are almost
more Tankers now
than the tank can hold.
You've been there
enough to know.
Their population can't keep
growing like it is forever.
If we just let it go,
they're going to hit
a saturation point.
Exposing them to the
Gadoll is the cleanest way
to keep their numbers
under control.
I'm not sure why you've
gotten so attached to them.
They're just humans, right?
After all the time
we've known each other,
I should've known better than
to think I had you figured out.
But honestly, you're a
lot more fun because of that.
Look, Minato.
Listen to me.
Every pit you step in,
you start digging deeper.
Sooner or later, I'm not gonna
be able to pull you out.
I understand.
I'll try not to make things
any harder for you.
[MINATO] Only promise I can
make is: I'll do what I can.
[JILL] So, Kaburagi, could you
not waltz into restricted zones
and announce yourself to staff?
If the game cops
catch wind of you there,
it's gonna be an issue.
[KABURAGI]
Understood.
[JILL] And if you
could log out by sundown?
So they don't notice
your spoofed account
and trace it back to our
unauthorized terminals?
That'd be great, thanks.
Dammit.
I have to do something!
I have to do something to help.
[NATSUME]
Hey, Boss.
Don't worry about Pipe.
He's fine, and I promise
I'll take great care of him
while you're away!
So come find me as
soon as you get back, okay?
[KURENAI] They really
got us good this time.
Is there any way
we can close that up?
[REPAIRER A] It's no
big trick technical‐wise.
But we're shorthanded
and it's a lotta hole to patch,
so it's safe to say it'd have
to be a long‐term job.
And until it's done,
any Gadoll small enough
to fit can stroll right in.
Which means,
working on it is a deathtrap.
[REPAIRER A] We should be
able to divert enough plating
from the recycling line
to fill the gap.
But we're gonna need more outer
wall repair kits to patch it.
So we're short on everything.
People, resources, and time.
Well that's it then.
See ya when we're dead, guys.
Shut it, Mendy.
[REPAIRER A] Believe me,
I know how bad this deal is.
I'm here lookin'
at it same as you are.
This is a way bigger repair
than we're equipped for.
Uh, hey.
Huh?
Oh! Uh. Don't the
Tanker house repair kits
have smaller amounts of
the same basic materials?
Yeah, that's true,
it's the same stuff
at the end of the day,
but we'd need an awful lot
of 'em for a job that size.
But every house has one, so if
we could collect them all‐‐
All of them?
You're right; that would be
enough materials to get it done,
but getting 'em all together
is a whole 'nother issue.
And there's still
the manpower problem.
We've got even more people
than repair kits, right?
She's not wrong.
True enough, there's
a lot of bodies in here.
Except, will they all go along?
Of course, they won't.
Think for a sec, Nats.
Everyone is scared to death.
Nobody's gonna wanna leave home.
Yeah, true, and there's
no way they're willing
to start taking orders
from a bunch of suicidal
adrenaline junkies.
Hey, screw you, buddy!
I mean that's how they see us!
Ugh... Please tell me
somebody brought booze.
Where're you going?
Even if everyone won't help,
some people will.
I'm gonna go try
and track 'em down!
[BUTCHER BOSS]
Hey! That's not where that goes!
Take it around back!
[BUTCHER A]
Sorry, sir!
'Scuse me.
[BUTCHER BOSS]
There, shore up that wall!
It needs another plate!
C'mon, get with it, people!
Just a moment please, sir?
[BUTCHER BOSS]
What are you doing,
reinforce that pillar already!
Hey, sir! Got a sec?
[BUTCHER D]
Who was that?
[BUTCHER E]
She sees we're working, right?
Natsume?
[BUTCHER BOSS]
No. Who are you?
[NATSUME]
Uh. My name is Natsume.
You seem like the one
in charge here.
And what if I am?
I'm looking for a way to seal up
that giant hole in the Tank.
It's not gonna
be easy to pull off.
I hope the butchers
can lend a hand.
Please help me out!
[BUTCHER BOSS]
Huh?
Not sure how you missed it, but
we got our own work to do here.
You being around doesn't help.
As long as that hole stays open,
the Gadoll attacks are only
gonna get worse!
We have to fix this,
and I know‐‐
Everybody's trying to do their
part right now, young miss.
But I'm sorry.
That's all we can manage.
[FEI]
Hey! What are you doing here?
[NATSUME]
Fei?
I need a favor from you.
We're trying to
get that big hole
in the outer armor sealed up.
And if the butchery
workers will help us out,
I really think
we can make it work!
You're crazy.
Anyone who goes up there is
an easy target for the Gadoll.
It's too much, sorry.
It might not work.
And you're right,
it'll be a dangerous.
But I can't give up
without at least trying.
I know we'll lose more people.
Any of us could be next.
It could be me,
or one of my squadmates,
or someone I grew up with.
I want to protect all these
people, but I can't do it alone.
I'm begging you, Fei.
Help me!
[FEI]
Hmm...
Please just stop.
You're always like this.
I'm not like you.
I can't put on
a brave face right now.
I saw so many people die.
Just being out here scares me.
How can I go up there
where they are?
I trust the Gears.
They'll protect us.
All right?
Sorry, but I can't help.
[NATSUME]
Listen.
People change.
I finally figured out
that what I wanted
was to change myself.
I was so tired of feeling
weak and helpless.
That's why I became a soldier.
I wouldn't call myself strong.
But I'm stronger than before.
[FEI]
Hmph...
That's the part I can't stand.
I was happy.
Going to the market with you.
Sharing our lunches.
It didn't seem that bad,
just living my life
peacefully in here.
Having my friends and a place
to stay was everything I needed.
Fei.
[FEI]
But you wanted more.
And every time
you talked about it,
I felt like I was wrong
for being happy.
And I couldn't handle it.
Fei. I'm sorry.
If you can spare a repair kit,
then please,
bring it to the cafeteria.
Goodbye.
Ugh. Nerd.
You're back!
Where'd you run off to?
I tried talking to everyone
I could think of,
and here's what I got.
Where did all this‐‐?
Oh come on,
you didn't think we were gonna
let you do all the work, right?
So we got together and
managed to scrounge these up.
Though I'm betting
we've still got a ways to go.
[BUTCHER BOSS]
This the place?
Seems that way.
[BUTCHER F]
Hey there.
[NATSUME]
You guys.
Uh. Hi, sir.
[BUTCHER BOSS clears throat]
Like I said.
Everybody has their
own part to play
in keeping this town alive.
But we've got choices too.
There's more to doing
your part than doing your job.
You can count us in.
Thank you, that's a huge help.
Where'd all that passion
go from before?
Well, anyway.
We rounded up a few extra.
‐‐Sure did.
‐‐All for you.
Thanks!
[SHOPKEEPER]
Hey, kid.
I try to avoid doing enough
work to break a sweat,
so I want you to know that
sending all these pretty girls
to ask me for help
was a dirty trick.
Fei!
Hey. Easy, Natsume!
[FENNEL]
Guys. We can do this thing!
[BUTCHER BOSS]
Didn't you transfer inside
to get out of armor repair?
[FENNEL]
Low blow, dude!
[laughter]
[OPERATOR A]
Commander.
The breach in the oxyone tank
appears to be under repair.
Already? Did they
push up the schedule?
No, sir, same schedule,
but it looks like the Tankers
have begun fixing it
on their own.
[MINATO]
No way.
What should we do, sir?
[MINATO]
Nothing. Leave them to it.
I can't picture them affecting
something on this scale.
[OPERATOR A]
Yes, sir.
Why are they bothering?
I'm so tired.
But you look like
you're lovin' that, Pipe.
Are you lovin' it?
Is it tasty?
A Gear? Why are you here?
'Scuze me. Uh...
[gasps] I can scream real loud!
Uh! Sorry!
I was just... Hold on.
Start over.
Got some milk!
Want some?
I'm good. Thank you.
You love milk. You sure?
Uh. No. I heard you love milk.
Kabu said it.
You talked to him?
Then do you know
where he is right now?
Um. Uh‐huh.
[NATSUME]
Omygosh.
Can you please tell me
how to reach him?
Things are kinda
complicated for him, so...
I need to know!
Can you at least
tell me if he's okay?
Well, uh, he isn't hurt.
Pipe, stop!
Come on. Don't... pounce.
Ahh....
Settle down there, buddy. Yeesh.
Hey. I said settle down,
all right?
Here.
[NATSUME]
Uh... Listen.
His name is Pipe and he's not‐‐
It's okay.
I promise, I'm not gonna
tell anyone you've got him.
Ahh! Man, that is good!
Here.
Oh, thanks, but I...
[KABURAGI]
That's nice.
[NATSUME]
You hadn't had it before?
[KABURAGI]
No.
[NATSUME] Well, when
you see the boss again,
maybe you can
talk him into trying it.
I always tried,
but he's way too stubborn
to listen to me.
No alcohol, no cigarettes,
not even milk.
He never cracked a smile
'cause he's allergic
to fun or something.
So what?
Does having fun really matter?
[NATSUME]
Yeah, it matters a ton!
Everybody needs stuff
that makes them happy,
like having a drink
of milk with a friend!
I don't think you
can even call it living
if you don't have
any fun in your life.
I mean you'd just be
circulating air.
What's that face?
[NATSUME]
Hold on.
What did I say that was funny?
[KABURAGI]
Nothing.
You know, it's kind
of a weird feeling.
I just met you, but somehow
it's making me nostalgic,
sitting out here and
talking with you like this.
Hey, look.
About Kaburagi.
[NATSUME]
It's fine.
Like you said,
things are complicated.
For him, it must be worse.
There have to be a lot of people
who could use someone
like him right now.
I would think most of us could.
Lemme ask you.
Are you just like that?
You're hell‐bent on
sealing up that hole.
I mean, if it'd been me
dealing with it,
you'd be screwed.
I would've given up just
like everyone else did.
You're the only one
who kept up the fight.
Come on, they all came around.
Because of you.
The same way
Kaburagi came around.
Things aren't
gonna be easy for you,
but I think
you can tough it out.
What I came to say is tha‐‐
I'm trying to be as
strong a person as him.
And I realize that
I'm nowhere close right now.
But if my spirit broke...
If I couldn't hold
onto hope anymore,
I don't think
I could keep going.
I can't live for nothing.
Even when the boss went away,
I kept telling myself he would
come back any day now,
and there's a part
of me still thinking
he's just gonna show up
and fix everything.
But I know he's
probably not coming back.
You don't need to try
and make it easier.
He tried to tell me
the night before.
That the war would never end,
and we'd never
escape the Gadoll.
And that's why.
I have to keep on pushing.
I gotta be strong.
I have to!
I can't just give up and
let everyone die, right?
I have to fight!
All of this will fall
before I'm through.
[BUG A]
Woo yeah!
[BUG B]
Chug! Chug! Chug!
[SARKOZY]
Kabu's here!
You're a few drinks late,
brother! Bottoms up!
Came back pretty quick
for your first session.
You really oughta take your time
and savor the sensation.
How many times have I told you?
You're logging in with
hacked accounts, guys.
We gotta be discrete,
or we're gonna get caught.
Did you manage to accomplish
whatever you were going for?
Stimulating conversation
with your pet‐‐
[KABURAGI]
Donatello.
You're all about parties,
am I right?
Yeah?
Where's this goin'?
[KABURAGI]
I'm about to throw a real rager.
You wanna come?
Huh... You know I would
be down anytime, pal,
but I'm gonna kick
your ass if it's lame.
Aw, you didn't tell me ya had
a birthday coming up, Kabu!
Hey, jackass!
Just tell us what kinda party,
so we can tell you why it sucks.
Destroying every last Gadoll
and finishing the game.
Wow!
You hear that?
We're gonna wipe out
the Gadoll, guys!
They oughta toss this
loony in the bug house!
[BUG C]
Too much turd fumes!
[BUG D]
His mind's gone!
How do we do that?
[DONATELLO]
Hmm?
[KABURAGI]
We take out the Gadoll factory.